Revisions and clarifications (#51)
devcontainers/spec: docs/specs/devcontainer-reference.md

Furthermore, working inside a development container can require additional **metadata** to drive tooling or service experiences than you would normally need with a production container. Providing a structured and consistent form for this metadata is a core part of this specification.

## devcontainer.json

While the structure of this metadata is critical, it is also important to call out how this data can be represented on disk where appropriate. While other representations may be added over time, metadata can be stored in a JSON with Comments file called `devcontainer.json` today. Products using it should expect to find a devcontainer.json file in one or more of the following locations (in order of precedence):

- .devcontainer/devcontainer.json
- .devcontainer.json
- .devcontainer/**/devcontainer.json (where ** is a sub-folder)

It is valid that these files may exist in more than one location, so consider providing a mechanism for users to select one when appropriate.

# Orchestration options

> A core principle of this specification is to seek to enrich existing container orchestrator formats with development container metadata where appropriate rather than replacing them. As a result, the metadata schema includes a set of optional properties for iteroprerating with different orchestrators. Today, the specification includes scenario-specific properties for working without a container orchestrator (by directly referencing an image or Dockerfile) and for using Docker Compose as a simple multi-container orchestrator. At the same time, this specification leaves space for further development and implementation of other orchestrator mechanisms and file formats. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A core principle of this specification is to seek to enrich existing container orchestrator formats with development container metadata where appropriate rather than replacing them. As a result, the metadata schema includes a set of optional properties for interoperating with different orchestrators. Today, the specification includes scenario-specific properties for working without a container orchestrator (by directly referencing an image or Dockerfile) and for using Docker Compose as a simple multi-container orchestrator. At the same time, this specification leaves space for further development and implementation of other orchestrator mechanisms and file formats. 
```

**Development containers** allow one to define a repeatable development environment for a user or team of developers that includes the execution environment the application needs. A development container defines an environment in which you develop your application before you are ready to deploy. While deployment and development containers may resemble one another, you may not want to include tools in a deployment image that you use during development.

> A **development container** is composed of a definition that deterministically creates containers under the control of the user. Its metadata schema is easiest to discuss in the context of a `devcontainer.json` file, though it is important to note that the **structure of the data** is what the specification focuses on.

Author: Yeah this was partly the original text - let me try to revise it because I agree it's not quite right.

> A **development container** is composed of a definition that deterministically creates containers under the control of the user. Its metadata schema is easiest to discuss in the context of a `devcontainer.json` file, though it is important to note that the **structure of the data** is what the specification focuses on.

Author: Ok - so I reworked the intro to try to make these pieces connect together better.  I feel like this reads more clearly.  See what you think.

- `runServices`: an optional property that indicates the set of services in the `docker-compose` configuration that should be started or stopped with the environment.

It is important to note that **image** and **dockerfile** properties are not needed since Docker Compose supports them natively in the format. 

# Other options

In addition to the configuration options explained above, there are other settings that apply when creating **development containers** to facilitate their use by developers. 

We describe the main ones below.

## Environment Variables

Environment variables can be set at different points in the dev container lifecycle. With this in mind, **development containers** support two classes of environment variables:

* **Container**: These variables are part of the container when it is created and are available at all points in its lifecycle. This concept is native to containers and can be set in the container image itself, using `containerEnv` for **image** and **Dockerfile** scenarios or using orchestrator specific properties like `env` in **Docker Compose** files.

> * **Remote**: These variables should to be set by a **development container** supporting tool as part of configuring its runtime environment. Users can set these using the `remoteEnv` property and implementing tools or services may add their own for specific sceanrios (e.g., secrets). These variables can change during the lifetime of the container, and are added after the container's `ENTRYPOINT` has fired.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Remote**: These variables should be set by a **development container** supporting tool as part of configuring its runtime environment. Users can set these using the `remoteEnv` property and implementing tools or services may add their own for specific scenarios (e.g., secrets). These variables can change during the lifetime of the container, and are added after the container's `ENTRYPOINT` has fired.
```

Any user facing processes should have remote [environment variables](#environment-variables) and [user](#users) configuration applied (inclusive of `userEnvProbe`).

For example, in the CLI reference implementation, this is the point in which anything executed with `devcontainer exec` would run. 

Once these final steps have occurred, implementing tools or services may connect to the environment as they see fit.

## Environment Stop

The intention of this step is to ensure all containers are stopped correctly based on the appropriate orchestrator specific steps to ensure no data is lost. It is up to the implementing tool or service to determine when this event should happen.

## Environment Resume

While it is not a strict requirement to keep a **development container** after it has been stopped, this is the most common scenario.

To resume the environment from a stopped state:

1. Restart all related containers.
2. Follow the approporpiate [implementation specific steps](#implementation-specific-steps).

> 3. Additionally, execute the `postStartCommand` and `postArrachCommand` are executed in the container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Additionally, execute the `postStartCommand` and `postAttachCommand` in the container.
```
